Hello Yike and Jorge,

I was nice meeting you today. Just to follow up here are some examples
on how to connect to Acropolis. Connecting to athens is very similar.

Logging into Acropolis from the command line on OSX and Ubuntu is about
the same. You will open a terminal and use the ssh command to log in.

ssh username@acropolis.uchicago.edu

Once you have logged into the system you can run command line programs
such as "python" or "R". You may run graphical versions of programs such
as "xstata" "matlab" or the newly installed "spyder" by forwarding a
graphical connection over ssh.

On Ubuntu
ssh -X username@acropolis.uchicago.edu

On OSX
ssh -Y username@acroplis.uchicago.edu

This is fine for programs that will take a short time to run. If you
disconnect your ssh session your graphical program will stop running. In
this case for graphical programs that will take a long time to run you
are better off with VNC.

The VNC client will open a full linux desktop which you can disconnect
from and reconnect to and leave your programs running. The client can be
found at the following link. For Windows or OSX you will want to use the
EasyVNC client. Once installed it will give you a list of SSCS servers.
You then enter your user name and password and it will take care of
starting the vnc session and connecting to the system.

https://sw.src.uchicago.edu/

Ubuntu is a bit more complicated. You will need the VNC Viewer 64bit
client from the above link.

1. ssh into acropolis and start the "vncserver" process. You only need
to do this the first time you use VNC. If the server is rebooted or if
you kill or have your vncserver session crash then you would need to
rerun vncserver.
ssh smohr@acropolis.uchicago.edu
vncserver -geometry 1920x1080

2. Run "vncserver -machelp" this will tell you how to connect from a mac
but the steps are the same from Ubuntu. The machelp directions will
provide you with something like the following to open the ssh tunnel.
You will need to open a new terminal on your machine and run this. Be
sure you are not already logged into Acropolis in your terminal
session.

ssh -L 5947:localhost:5947 smohr@acropolis.uchicago.edu

3. Execute the vnc client you downloaded from the above link and log in
with the localhost:portnumber provided by "vncserver -machelp".


There are a few ways to transfer files to the server. You may map a
network drive. Info about this can be found on our website. Keep in mind
you need to connect to the VPN if you are off campus.
https://cvpn.uchicago.edu/+CSCOE+/logon.html.

You can also use scp which is the same on OSX or Ubuntu. This is how I
would upload a directory called acropolisstuff to my home directory on
the server.

scp -rp acropolisstuff smohr@acropolis.uchicago.edu:/home/smohr/

download a directory from the server to my home directory.

scp -rp smohr@acropolis.uchicago.edu:/home/smohr/acropolisstuff .

Be careful using scp. If you have a directory on the server or your
computer with the same name you could possibly overwrite it.

I also showed you an sftp client called Filezilla. This and scp do not
require a VPN connection when off campus. You can download it for OSX
from https://filezilla-project.org/. It's available in Ubuntu by running
"sudo apt-get install filezilla".

There are a few different ways to do everything on these servers. If
it's a bit confusing let me know and I'll help you out. If you have any
other questions let me know.
